hello everyone welcome to the kitchen
now today only be showing you a really
fun experiment and it's a great one to
do to the kids it's called on walking
rainbows and what this is going to do is
show you a really fun scientific thing
which is called capillary action
and that's when water climbs up against
the forces of gravity and I'm also going
to be using some food colorings so we're
gonna have some real fun working out
what colors are going to mix what colors
are going to be created in the glasses
so all you need for this is seven
glasses some water kitchen roll and some
food coloring so I find all my glasses
up they're all the same size and then
touching against each other the one we
do is filled with water so I'm gonna
start off with this one at the end
just fill them kind of frequent to
school I'm missing this one out and on
to the next one
and then this one out again on the
father's the next one
and finally litter in the last class
right so now they're all set up what I'm
gonna do is add some food coloring so in
these cheering ones I'm going to add
some red they're just a few drops and
then insanity
now I'm going to add some yellow into
this glass and finally some blue in this
wrong I'm just going to give them a
little bit of a stir just to make sure
that's all kind of that you mixed in
okay so the next thing I need to do is
just tell us some of my kitchen towel
[Music]
and now you just need to fold running
half and then in half again so this is
obviously something you get the kids
involved in everyone can get stuck in
and just help to get everything ready so
then we can start the experiment there
you go so now how do you just need to
fold this one in half you can see that's
dripping in my little bridge that's
going to be going in between the first
two glasses okay so in those first paint
out half is one side and then half into
the empty girls and already look you can
see this the pill reaction
working straightway and that water's
being drawn up through the tiny fibers
against the force of gravity so that is
super clever and that's exactly what
happens with plants for their roots and
even if you're doing some painting use
and paint brush with flying bristles
you'll see them cut go up and that's
these are magical I think it's rather
magical science reaction right there so
let's carry on and get in with the rest
of our paper towels into the glasses so
there we go that goes into the empty one
and that goes into my yellow
I just put them all the way until you've
connected in off the glasses look you
can see this going up into the paper
towel straight away so it's a really
really fun visual experiment to do with
the kids and even bit kids as well well
I get very excited by this sort of thing
and then into the empty glass you can
see that going straight up
is the last look at that so what in
effect this is done this has created a
bridge in between each bar and this is
gonna be the watering rainbow so you can
see it's kind of connected in between so
now we need to do is wait so this does
take quite a few hours so it's a really
good idea actually to do this overnight
but as you can see it's already
beginning to happen the magic it's
already started so now you can kind of
guess which colors are going to be mixed
in between and we'll just watch as that
water goes all the way up and starts to
fill up these empty glasses Wow just
look at this one this is already
climbing all the way up and making its
way down into the empty glass so I can't
wait to come back tomorrow and see this
all finished
right okay so it's been an hour and a
half and you can really see the magic
starting to work so all of the empty
glasses have started to now fill up with
a mixture of colors and you can see that
walking rainbow really coming to life so
I'm gonna leave it now overnight but
just when he's showing the proteins
already happening lovely green on here
bit purpley and this has got a big
orange well look at this this is sat
here overnight and now you can really
see the magic has happened that
capillary action has told all of the
water up against the forces of gravity
and filled up all of those empty glasses
with an amazing rainbow mixture of
colors that's definitely a success I
don't enjoy watching it and I hope you
make your own looking rainbow I am if
you do share pics and use the hashtag
stay home dick and thing have fun guys
and don't forget it also uses paper
after hanging out to dry and it's great
to make collages with have fun bye